Editorial review: Document Translator and Language Detector APIs (#39457)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/translator/translate/index.md

---
title: "Translator: translate() method"
short-title: translate()
slug: Web/API/Translator/translate
page-type: web-api-instance-method
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: api.Translator.translate
---

{{APIRef("Translator and Language Detector APIs")}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

> The **`translate()`** method of the {{domxref("Translator")}} interface generates a new translation string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`translate()`** method of the {{domxref("Translator")}} interface returns a translation of an input string.
```

## Syntax

```js-nolint
translate(input)
translate(input, options)
```

### Parameters

- `input`
  - : A string representing the text to be translated.
- `options` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An object specifying configuration options for the `translate()` operation. Possible values include:
    - `signal`
      - : An {{domxref("AbortSignal")}} object instance, which allows the `translate()` operation to be aborted via the associated {{domxref("AbortController")}}.

### Return value

> A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that fulfills with a string containing the generated translation.

Reviewer: Does this always succeed with some string? I mean if I create this with the wrong source will it still generate "something"?

Author: It does, yes. It just doesn't make much sense.

### Exceptions

- `InvalidStateError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if the current {{domxref("Document")}} is not active.

> 

Reviewer: No permission error?

Author: Not as far as I can tell. I think just the `create()` functions are permissions gated.
